# 1 Phases of the Game

1.00.00 This Category of the rulebook goes over the Phases of the game and how the base rules are observed.
1.00.01 A faction has special abilities that may contradict the rules. A faction's particular abilities always have precedence over the rules.
1.00.02 A Treachery Card may contradict the rules or a faction's particular abilities. A Treachery Card always has precedence over the rules and faction abilities.
1.00.03 A Variant [4] may contradict the rules, a faction ability, or a Treachery Card. Variants always have precedence over the rules, faction abilities, and Treachery Cards.
1.00.04 When a Karama card is used to cancel an ability, as detailed in Karama card description 3.01.11.01 and 3.01.11.02, the faction whose ability is cancelled may recalculate and retake that same action (ex: revival, shipment, movement) without the ability.
1.00.05 When a faction’s ability is used all other actions that can take place must wait until the ability is complete. After the ability is completely done players may use abilities, play cards, and make Bribes. -3.01.11 -3.01.11

## 1.01 Storm Phase

1.01.00 This is the first Phase of the Turn. In this Phase the Storm Marker is moved around the Map and Storm Order is determined for the Turn.
1.01.01 DECIDING FIRST PLAYER: The faction whose Player Marker the storm next approaches will be the First Player for this Turn in each applicable Phase and action.
1.01.02 STORM MOVEMENT: In all subsequent Storm Phases after Turn 1, the two players who last used the Battle Wheels will independently dial a number from 1 to 3, simultaneously Reveal their numbers, add them together, and then advance the Storm Marker from its current position counterclockwise around the Map the sum total of Sectors. -2.04.13 -3.01.23 -2.04.13 -3.01.23
1.01.03 STORM DESTRUCTION: When the Storm Marker moves, any Forces in a Sector of a Sand Territory (except the Imperial Basin) over which the storm starts, passes, or ends on are destroyed. Place these Forces in the Tleilaxu Tanks. Forces that are not on a Sand Territory find protection from the storm. In addition any spice in a Sector which a storm passes over or stops is destroyed and Placed in the Spice Bank. -2.04.16 -3.01.07 -2.04.16 -3.01.07
1.01.04 OBSTRUCTION: Forces may not Ship/Send/Move into, out of, or through a Sector in Storm. Forces may not battle if either Force is in storm and the other is not or, separated by a sector in storm. -2.04.17 -2.04.17

## 1.02 Spice Blow And Nexus Phase

1.02.00 This is the second Phase of the Turn. In this Phase spice is Placed on the board and alliances can be made.
1.02.01 BLOW THE SPICE: The top card of the Spice Deck is Revealed and discarded. +1.14.03 +1.14.03
1.02.02 FIRST TURN: During the first turn's Spice Blow Phase only, all Shai-Hulud cards Revealed are ignored, Set Aside, then reshuffled back into the Spice deck after this Phase.
1.02.03 NO NEXUS: There can not be a Nexus on Turn one for any reason.
1.02.04 TERRITORY CARD: This is a Spice Blow. When this type of card is discarded the amount of spice indicated on the card is taken from the Spice Bank and Placed onto the Territory in the Sector containing the Spice Blow icon. (If the Spice Blow icon is currently in storm, no spice is Placed for that Spice Blow.)
1.02.05 SHAI-HULUD: This is a Sandworm. When this type of card is discarded destroy all spice and Forces in the Territory of the topmost Territory Card in the discard pile and Place them in the Spice Bank and Tleilaxu Tanks respectively. Continue discarding Spice Blow cards until a Territory Card is discarded. Now a Nexus will occur. -2.04.07 -2.04.07
1.02.06 NEXUS: Revealing a Shai-Hulud card after the first Turn causes a Nexus at the end of the Phase. In a Nexus, Alliances can be formed and broken (See Alliances 1.10)

## 1.03 Choam Charity Phase

1.03.00 This is the third Phase of the Turn. Players with 0 or 1 spice may claim CHOAM Charity.
1.03.01 COLLECTING CHOAM CHARITY: All players with 0 or 1 spice can collect spice from the bank to bring their total to 2 by calling out "CHOAM Charity". -2.02.09 -2.02.09
1.03.02 FRAUD SAFE GUARDS: A Player may only Claim CHOAM Charity once a Turn.

## 1.04 Bidding Phase

1.04.00 This is the fourth Phase of the Turn. Players can bid spice to acquire Treachery Cards.
1.04.01 DECLARATION: Before bidding starts, all players must publicly announce how many Treachery Cards they hold.
1.04.02 MAX HAND SIZE: A player's maximum hand size is 4 Treachery cards. -2.05.07 -2.09.05 -2.05.07 -2.09.05
1.04.03 INELIGIBLE: Players with a full hand are not eligible to bid and must pass during a bid for a Treachery Card.
1.04.04 DEALER: A selected player deals 1 card for each player who is eligible to bid from the Treachery Deck face down in a row. +2.01.05 +2.01.05
1.04.05 AUCTION: The first card in the row is now auctioned off for spice.
1.04.06 BIDDING: The bidding is started by the First Player. If that player is not eligible to bid the next player to the right who is eligible opens the bidding. -2.03.04 +2.05.08 -1.10.02.04 -3.01.11.04
1.04.06.01 This is the procedure for bidding on a card:
1.04.06.02 The player who bids first must bid 1 spice or more otherwise they must pass. Bidding then proceeds to the bidder's immediate right. The next bidder may raise the bid or pass, this continues around the table until a top bid is made and all other players have passed.
1.04.06.03 Buying A Card: The top bidding player then pays the number of spice they bid to the Spice Bank and receives the card currently up for bid, adding it to their hand. -2.03.04 +2.05.08 -2.03.04 +2.05.08
1.04.06.04 Bid Limit: Players may not bid more spice than they have. -1.10.02.04 -3.01.11.04 -1.10.02.04 -3.01.11.04
1.04.06.05 Time Limit: Each player must bid within 10 seconds of the previous player or they are assumed to have passed. Players not at the table are assumed to have passed.
1.04.07 NEXT STARTING BIDDER: In subsequent bidding during this Phase, the first eligible player, to the right of the player who opened the bid for the previous card, begins the bidding for the next card.
1.04.08 END OF BIDDING: Bidding for Treachery Cards continues until all cards available for bid have been auctioned off.
1.04.09 BOUGHT-IN: When a face down Treachery card is passed on by everyone, all remaining cards are returned to the top of the Treachery Deck in the order they were dealt out and bidding on face down Treachery Cards is over.
1.04.10 TRANSPARENCY: The amount (not the type) of Treachery Cards a player has in their hand must be made known upon request by another player during the Bidding Phase.

## 1.05 Revival Phase

1.05.00 This is the fifth Phase of the Turn. All players are allowed to revive Forces and leaders from the Tleilaxu Tanks. There is no Storm Order in this Phase.
1.05.01 Force Revival: All players may now revive up to 3 Forces from the Tleilaxu Tanks. -1.14.08 -2.03.07 -1.14.08 -2.03.07 +2.04.11
1.05.01.01 To revive Forces you must adhere to the following:
1.05.01.02 FREE REVIVAL: A certain number of Forces are revived for free as stated on the player sheet. +2.04.11 +2.04.11
1.05.01.03 BY SPICE: Any additional Forces that may be revived, beyond your free revival and up to your current limit, must be done at a cost of 2 spice per Force.
1.05.01.04 PAYMENT: All spice paid for Force Revival is Placed in the Spice Bank.
1.05.02 TO RESERVES: Revived Forces must be Put in the player's reserves.
1.05.03 Leader Revival: When a player has no Active Leaders or all of there leaders have died at least once, they may revive 1 face up leader per Turn until all of their leaders have been revived. +1.14.02 -1.14.08 -3.01.20 +1.14.02 -1.14.08 -3.01.20
1.05.03.01 To revive leaders you must adhere to the following:
1.05.03.02 COST: For a leader, a player must pay that leader's fighting strength in spice to revive that leader.
1.05.03.03 PAYMENT: All spice paid for leader revival is Placed in the Spice Bank.
1.05.03.04 REVIVED LEADER STATUS: A revived leader is added to that player's Leader Pool and can be played normally, it is still subject to being a Traitor.
1.05.04 DEAD AGAIN: When a revived leader is killed again, place it face down in the Tleilaxu Tanks. This leader can not be revived again until all the player's other revivable leaders have been revived, killed, and sent to the Tleilaxu Tanks again / are unavailable. -1.14.02 -3.01.20 -1.14.02 -3.01.20
1.05.05 FACE DOWN LEADERS: At anytime through out the Turn you may look at any face down leader with your matching faction symbol.

## 1.06 Shipment And Movement Phase

1.06.00 This is the sixth Phase of the Turn. All players are allowed to Ship and/or Move Forces during this Phase, Placing their Forces onto the planet or moving Forces across the board.
1.06.01 The First Player conducts their Force Shipment action and then Force Movement action. Play proceeds in Storm Order until all players have completed this Phase or indicated they will not use their actions. -2.06.12.01 -3.03.05.02 -3.03.05.03 -2.06.12.01 -3.03.05.02 -3.03.05.03
1.06.02 ONE FORCE SHIPMENT: Each player may make only one Force Shipment action per Turn.
1.06.03 Shipment of Reserves: A player with off-planet reserves may use one shipment action to Ship any number of Forces from their reserves to any one Territory on the board. -1.14.05 +2.06.05 +2.06.09 -1.14.05 +2.06.05 +2.06.09 -2.06.06 -2.06.09 -3.01.11.03 -2.06.04 -2.04.17 -2.02.11
1.06.03.00 On your Ship action you must adhere to the following:
1.06.03.01 COST: The cost of shipping off-planet reserves is 1 spice per Force shipped into any Stronghold and 2 spice per Force shipped into any Non-Stronghold Territory. -2.06.06 -2.06.09 -3.01.11.03 -2.06.06 -2.06.09 -3.01.11.03
1.06.03.02 PAYMENT: All spice paid for Shipment is Placed in the Spice Bank. -2.06.04 -2.06.04
1.06.03.03 SECTORS: When shipping into a Territory lying in several Sectors, a player must make clear in which Sector of the Territory they choose to leave their Forces.
1.06.03.04 RESTRICTION: No player may Ship into or out of a Sector in Storm. -2.04.17 -2.04.17
1.06.03.05 OCCUPANCY LIMIT: No player may Ship into a stronghold already occupied by two other player's Forces. -2.02.11 -2.02.11
1.06.04 Restriction: No player may ship Forces from the board back to their reserves. -2.06.05.02 -2.06.05.02
1.06.05 FORCE MOVEMENT: Each player may Move, as a group, any number of their Forces from one Territory into one other Territory. Unless separated by Storm, that player may Move groups of Forces from different Sectors of the same Territory. -3.01.09 -3.03.11.02 -2.04.06 -3.03.11.01 -2.02.20
1.06.05.00 On your Movement action you must adhere to the following:
1.06.05.01 ONE FORCE MOVE: Each player may make only one Force movement action per Turn. -3.01.09 -3.03.11.02 -3.01.09 -3.03.11.02
1.06.05.02 Forces are free to Move into, out of, or through any Territory occupied by any number of Forces with certain restrictions and additional movement advantage mentioned below.
1.06.05.03 ONE ADJACENT TERRITORY: A player without a Force in either Arrakeen or Carthag at the start of their movement can only Move their Forces to one adjacent Territory. -2.04.06 -3.03.11.01 -2.04.06 -3.03.11.01
1.06.05.04 ORNITHOPTERS: A player who starts a force move with one or more Forces in either Arrakeen, Carthag, or both, has access to ornithopters and may Move Forces through up to three adjacent territories. The Forces moved do not have to be in Arrakeen or Carthag to make the three Territory Move.
1.06.05.05 SECTORS: Sectors have no effect on movement. Forces can Move into or through a Territory ignoring all Sectors. A Sector's only function is to regulate the movement and coverage of the storm and spice collection.
1.06.05.06 STORM: As defined above in the Storm Phase section, no Force may Move into, out of, or through a Sector in storm.
1.06.05.07 Many territories occupy several Sectors, so that a player may Move into and out of a Territory that is partly in the storm, so long as the group does not pass through the part covered by the storm.
1.06.05.08 When ending a Move in a Territory lying in several Sectors, a player must make clear in which Sector of the Territory they choose to leave their Forces.
1.06.05.09 Occupancy Limit: Like Shipment, Forces can not be moved into or through a Stronghold if Forces of two other players are already there. -2.02.20 -2.02.20
1.06.06 SAFE HAVEN: The Polar Sink is never in storm.
1.06.07 CONSTRAINT: At the end of your Shipment and Movement actions, Place all your Forces that are in the same Territory (except the Polar Sink) as your Ally’s Forces in the Tleilaxu Tanks. -2.02.12 -2.02.12
1.06.08 Repositioning: A player may use their movement action to reposition their Forces to relocate to a different Sector within the same Territory. Storm limitations still apply.

## 1.07 Battle Phase

1.07.00 This is the seventh Phase of the Turn. Players must resolve battles in every Territory that is occupied by Forces from two or more factions.
1.07.01 Battle Determination: Wherever two or more players' Forces occupy the same Territory, battles must occur between those players. Battles continue until just one player's Forces, or no Forces remain in all territories on the Board. -1.07.01.00 -1.07.01.02 -2.02.12 -1.07.01.00 -1.07.01.02 -2.02.12
1.07.01.01 Players can not battle one another in a Territory if their Forces are separated by a Sector in storm. Their Forces can remain in the same Territory at the end of the Phase.
1.07.01.02 BATTLING BLIND: Whenever two or more players’ Forces are in the same Territory and in the same Sector under storm players still battle.
1.07.01.03 NEUTRAL ZONE: Players can not battle in the Polar Sink. It is a safe haven for everyone.
1.07.02 FIRST PLAYER: When resolving battles, the First Player is named the Aggressor until all their battles, if any, have been fought. The Aggressor chooses the order in which they wish to fight their battles. Then the player next in Storm Order becomes the Aggressor and so on, until all battles are resolved. -3.03.05.01 -3.03.05.01
1.07.03 MULTIPLE BATTLES: When there are three or more players in the same Territory, the Aggressor picks who they will battle first, second, etc. for as long as they have Forces in that Territory.
1.07.04 Battle Plan: To resolve a battle, each player secretly formulates a Battle Plan. -1.14.01 -2.01.08 -2.01.09 -1.14.01 -2.01.08 -2.01.09 -1.07.06.06.00 +2.02.06 +2.02.07
1.07.04.01 A Battle Plan always includes the number of Forces dialed on the Battle Wheel. When possible, it must include a player's leader or a Cheap Hero. It may include Treachery Cards at the player's discretion.
1.07.04.02 BATTLE WHEEL: Each player picks up a Battle Wheel and secretly dials a number from zero to the number of Forces they have in the disputed Territory. Both players will lose the number of Forces dialed on their Battle Wheel.
1.07.04.03 LEADERS: One Leader Disc is selected and put face up in the slot on the wheel. A Cheap Hero Card may be played in lieu of a Leader Disc.
1.07.04.04 DEDICATED LEADER: Leaders that survive battles may fight more than once in a single Territory if needed, but no leader may fight in more than one Territory during the same Phase. -1.07.06.06.00 -1.07.06.06.00
1.07.04.05 LEADER ANNOUNCEMENT: A player must always play either a leader or a Cheap Hero card as part of their Battle Plan if possible. When it is not possible, a player must announce that they can not play a leader or Cheap Hero.
1.07.04.06 NO TREACHERY: A player with no leader or Cheap Hero must still battle, but they can not play any Treachery Cards as part of their Battle Plan. (This situation can occur when a player does not have a Cheap Hero and all their leaders are in the Tleilaxu Tanks or have fought in another Territory in that Phase.)
1.07.04.07 TREACHERY CARDS: Players with a leader or Cheap Hero may play a Weapon Treachery Card, Defense Treachery Card, or both by holding them against the wheel. They may choose not to play Treachery Cards as well. +2.02.06 +2.02.07 +2.02.06 +2.02.07
1.07.05 REVEALING WHEELS: When both players are ready, the Battle Plans are Revealed simultaneously.
1.07.06 BATTLE RESOLUTION: The winner is the player with the higher total of number dialed on the Battle Wheel, plus their leader's fighting strength if applicable. -1.14.11 -1.14.11 -1.05.04 -3.02.02 -2.05.10 -4.03.08 -1.14.12 -2.01.12 +2.05.09 +4.09.01
1.07.06.01 NO TIES: In the case of a tie, the Aggressor wins the battle.
1.07.06.02 WEAPONS: Check to see if your opponent protected their leader from your weapon with the proper Defense, if they did not, do not add their leader's fighting strength to their number dialed. Next, see if your weapon affects your leader, if it does check to see if you played the proper Defense, if not do not add your leader's fighting strength to your number dialed.Note: Some weapons may not kill leaders but still make the leader's fighting strength nonapplicable.
1.07.06.03 KILLED LEADERS: Any leaders killed are immediately Placed face up in the Tleilaxu TanksThe winner immediately receives their value (including their own leader, if killed) in spice from the Spice Bank. -1.05.04 -3.02.02 -1.05.04 -3.02.02
1.07.06.04 SURVIVING LEADERS: Leaders who survive remain in the Territory where they were used. (Game effects do not kill these leaders while there.) These are not part of the Leader Pool until Leader Return [1.07.07]. -2.05.10 -4.03.08 -2.05.10 -4.03.08
1.07.06.05 LOSING: The losing player loses all the Forces they had in the Territory to the Tleilaxu Tanks and must discard every Treachery Card they used in their Battle Plan. Note that the loser does not lose their leader as a result of losing the battle.
1.07.06.06 WINNING: The winning player loses only the number of Forces they dialed on the Battle Wheel. These Forces are Placed in the Tleilaxu Tanks. The winning player may discard any of the cards they played; that player may keep any cards that do not say "Discard after use". -1.14.12 -1.14.12
1.07.06.07 TRAITORS: When you are in a battle and your opponent uses a leader that matches a Traitor Card in your hand, you may call out "Traitor!" and pause the game. This can be done against any Active Leader your opponent has, even when that leader was not one of their Active Leaders at the start of the game.-2.01.12 +2.05.09 +4.09.01 -2.01.12 +2.05.09 +4.09.01
1.07.06.07.01 When a Traitor Card is Revealed the Player who revealed the Traitor Card: immediately wins the battle, loses nothing, regardless of what was played in the Battle Plans (even if a lasgun and shield are Revealed), adds their leader back to their leader pool to be available again this Phase, Places the traitorous leader in the Tleilaxu Tanks, and receives the traitorous leader's fighting strength in spice from the Spice Bank. One time use abilities may be considered not used for this instance (Ex: Kwisatz Haderach, Captured leaders). One time use cards may be kept or discarded by the winner.
1.07.06.07.02 The Player Whose Traitor Was Revealed: loses all their Forces in the Territory and discards all of the cards they played.
1.07.06.07.03 TWO TRAITORS: When both leaders are traitors (each a traitor for the opponent), both players' Forces in the Territory, their cards played, and their leaders, are lost. Neither player receives any spice.
1.07.07 LEADER RETURN: After all battles have been fought, players collect any of their leaders used in battle still in Territories adding them to their Leader Pool.

## 1.08 Spice Collection Phase

1.08.00 This is the eighth Phase of the Turn. Forces in territories that contain spice may collect the spice. +1.13.01 +1.13.01
1.08.01 HARVESTING SPICE: Any player whose Forces Occupy a Sector of a Territory in which there is spice may now collect that spice. This is done by taking the spice tokens you are entitled to from the Territory and Putting them behind your shield.
1.08.02 COLLECTION RATE: The collection rate of spice for each Force is 2 spice per Force. If the player occupies Carthag and/or Arrakeen their collection rate is now 3 spice per Force.
1.08.03 UNCLAIMED SPICE: Uncollected spice remains where it is for future turns.

## 1.09 Mentat Pause Phase

1.09.00 This is the ninth Phase of the Turn. A winner (or winners) is declared, or players take some time to evaluate their positions on the map, then move the Turn Counter to the next position on the Turn Track to begin the next Turn.
1.09.01 COLLECT BRIBE SPICE: Add any spice from in front of your shield to your spice reserves.
1.09.02 Stronghold Victory
1.09.02.01 Players now check to see if the following requirements are met to achieve Stronghold Victory for one or more players.
1.09.02.02 Unallied Stronghold Victory: The requirement for an Unallied player to win is to Control three or more Strongholds with at least one of their Forces during the Mentat Pause Phase.
1.09.02.03 Allied Stronghold Victory: The requirement for an Alliance to win is to Control, between the Allied players, a total of four or more Strongholds with at least one or more Forces during the Mentat Pause Phase.
1.09.03 MULTIPLE WINNERS: A player or alliance that has met the Stronghold requirement wins the game. When multiple player(s) and/or alliance(s) meet the requirements (as defined in 1.09.02) for a stronghold victory only the player or alliance first in Storm Order wins the game. -2.02.03 -2.02.03
1.09.04 WAR CONTINUES: When there are no winners, players mull over their positions on the board, consider their options and, when they are ready, move the turn marker to the next position on the Turn Track to begin the next Turn.
1.09.05 END GAME OR DEFAULT VICTORY: The game is over when the desired number of Turns are reached. On the last Turn if no one has won and the Spacing Guild is not in the game the Fremen win. When the Fremen are not in the game either, the player Occupying the most Strongholds wins. If several qualify, all who qualify win. +2.06.08 +2.06.11 +2.06.08 +2.06.11

## 1.10 Alliances

1.10.00 Once a Shai-Hulud (sandworm) card is turned over on the second or subsequent turns, at the end of the Spice Blow and Nexus Phase, a Nexus occurs. During a Nexus, all players have a chance to make, join or break Alliances. Once players have had a chance to do so, play continues.
1.10.01 NEXUS
1.10.01.01 Discussion: Players may discuss among themselves the advantages and disadvantages of allying, and with whom.
1.10.01.02 Forming an Alliance: A player may ally once per Nexus. Two players may announce that they are forming an Alliance, they are now allied.
1.10.01.03 Transparency: The members of an Alliance must be made known to all. Alliances cannot be secret. Swap Alliance Cards as a reminder of who is in an Alliance.
1.10.01.04 Alliance Limits: No more than two players may be in an Alliance with each other.
1.10.01.05 Landsraad Limits: Several Alliances can be formed during a Nexus, but no player can be a member of more than one Alliance.
1.10.01.06 Breaking an Alliance: Any player may break an Alliance during a Nexus. A player announces that they are breaking from their Alliance, they are now unallied.
1.10.01.07 Conclusion of A Nexus: Once all players have had a chance to ally, no further Alliances can be made until the next Nexus.
1.10.02 How an Alliance Functions -2.11.15 -2.03.06 -2.02.12
1.10.02.01 Allied players' Forces are considered the same for the purposes of victory.
1.10.02.02 The win condition is now 4 strongholds instead of 3 for players in an Alliance. If together their joint Forces Control 4 or more strongholds in the Mentat Pause Phase, they have jointly won the game. -2.11.15 -2.11.15
1.10.02.03 Ally Secrecy: Allies may discuss and share strategy and information secretly at any time.
1.10.02.04 Separate Spice Holding: Allies may not give spice to one another. -2.03.06 -2.03.06
1.10.02.05 Bidding: During the Bidding Phase, allies may help each other by paying some or all the cost of each other's Treachery Cards so that a player can bid more spice than they actually have.
1.10.02.06 Movement: During the Shipment and Movement Phase, allies may pay for each other's shipments.
1.10.02.07 Constraint: At the end of your Shipment and Movement actions, Place all your Forces that are in the same Territory (except the Polar Sink) as your Ally's Forces in the Tleilaxu Tanks. -2.02.12 -2.02.12
1.10.02.08 Shared Advantages: Allies may assist one another with any abilities labeled: ALLIANCE.

## 1.11 Secrecy

1.11.00 Players are never required to keep their cards, spice holdings, or the traitors they selected secret. They are not obligated to Reveal this information either. -2.11.10.01 -2.11.10.05 -3.01.22 +3.02.01 -2.11.10.01 -2.11.10.05 -3.01.22 +3.02.01
1.11.01 SPICE RESERVES: All spice holdings should be kept behind the Player Shield.
1.11.02 HIDDEN HAND: The amount of Treachery Cards that any player has must be made known to any player that asks during the Bidding Phase but can be kept secret during any other Phase of the Turn.

## 1.12 Deals and Bribes

1.12.00 ALLIANCE DEALS: Any Player can make any kind of verbal Deal between one another. Once made, the conditions of these Deals must be stated aloud and must be honored to the best of a player's ability. Players who are not members of the same Alliance can make any kind of verbal Bribe between one another. Once made, the conditions of these Bribes must be stated aloud and must be honored.A player cannot renege on a Deal or Bribe.
1.12.01 BRIBE SPICE: When Spice is paid as part of a Deal it is considered a Bribe. Allies can make deals with one another so long as it is not a Bribe.
1.12.02 BRIBE CONSTRAINTS: When spice is transferred as part of a Bribe, the spice is Put in FRONT of the recipient's player shield. Players collect spice from in front of their player shields and add it to their spice reserves during the Mentat Pause Phase, Collect Bribe Spice [1.09.01].
1.12.03 BRIBE LIMITS: A deal or bribe cannot involve the transfer or gift of Treachery Cards, Traitor Cards, leaders, Forces, or faction abilities. This leaves secret information, future actions, and, of course, spice. A player can not make a deal or bribe that would contravene the rules or the player's faction powers. These are the only limitations.
1.12.04 NO BRIBES DURING GAME SET UP: A Deal or Bribe can not be made until after 0.16.
1.12.05 TIME TO COLLECT: A Bribe can not be made after Mentat Pause Phase [1.09] of any Turn.

## 1.13 Advanced Game

1.13.00 For experienced players the game is changed by adding these rules: increasing the number of Spice Blows, adding a spice advantage for holding a city or Tuek's Sietch, (the smuggler stronghold), an enhanced Karama Card, an advanced battle system, and additional faction abilities (as stated in 2.xx.00). Decide as a group if you are playing Advanced in Set Up before any other step (0.00).
1.13.01 Increased Spice Flow: During Collection Phase [1.08], each occupant of Carthag and Arrakeen collects 2 spice and the occupant of Tuek's Sietch collects 1 spice. To qualify for collection, a player needs to occupy the stronghold only at the time of collection. If a player occupies two or three of these strongholds, they collect spice for each that they occupy.
1.13.02 DOUBLE SPICE BLOW: After 1.02.01 another Spice Card will be Revealed creating a second Spice Card discard pile (discard pile A and discard pile B).
1.13.02.01 When using double spice blow:
1.13.02.02 When a Shai-Hulud appears in the first discard pile (Pile A) any spice and Forces on a Territory Card at the top of discard pile A (if any) are lost to the Spice Bank and Tleilaxu Tanks respectively. The Shai-Hulud card is Put on the spice discard pile. Then another card is turned over. If it is a Shai-Hulud it is immediately discarded on pile A and another card is turned over. This continues until a Territory Card appears and spice is placed as defined in 1.02.04. The Territory Card is put face up on spice discard pile A. Then a Nexus occurs.
1.13.02.03 Now Reveal another spice card and repeat the above procedure using discard pile B.
1.13.03 SPICE DECK RESUFFLE: When the Spice Deck needs to be reshuffled, Shuffle in all discarded territory and Shai-Hulud cards under the top most territory card in Spice Discard Pile A and all Territory and Shai-Hulud cards in Spice Discard Pile B into the deck.
1.13.04 SPICE DIALING: Each Force used in a battle is valued at its full strength if 1 spice is paid to support it. -2.04.21 -2.04.21
1.13.04.01 Spice now plays an important role in the combat procedure. When using spice dialing:
1.13.04.02 UNSPICED FORCES: A Force used in a battle that is not supported by 1 spice is valued at half strength.
1.13.04.03 NUMBER DIALED CALCULATION: When dialing a Battle Plan, one-half increments can be indicated by lining up the line between the numbers with the line under the window of the Battle Wheel.
1.13.04.04 SPICED FORCES: When creating a Battle Plan, a player must add the amount of spice they plan to pay in the battle to their Battle Wheel.
1.13.04.05 PAYMENT: All spice paid for Spice Dialing is Placed in the Spice Bank.
1.13.05 LOSING NOTHING: When a traitor card is played, the winner keeps all spice paid to support their Forces.
1.13.06 ONE TIME ULTIMATE: When playing a Karama Card [3.01.11], in addition to it's normal effects a player may now use it to implement their Faction's special Karama power once per game.

## 1.14 Faction Karama Power

1.14.00 In addition to the regular Karama power, all factions gain a unique power that can be used once in a game when the player plays a Karama Card [3.01.11]. The Karama Card is discarded to use the ability. -1.14.06 -1.14.06
1.14.01 Atreides: During Battle Phase [1.07] you may use a Karama Card to look at any one player's entire Battle Plan.
1.14.02 Emperor: During Revival Phase [1.05] you may use a Karama Card to revive up to three of your Forces or one of your leaders for free.
1.14.03 Fremen: During Spice Blow and Nexus Phase [1.02], after turn 1 you may use a Karama Card to Place your sandworm token in any sand Territory that you wish. This is treated as a normal sandworm and will cause a nexus as described in Spice Blow Nexus [1.02.06].
1.14.04 Harkonnen: During the Bidding Phase [1.04] you may use a Karama Card to take the entire hand of another player and add their cards to your hand. For each card you added to your hand, you must then give that player one card in return.
1.14.05 Spacing Guild: During Shipment and Movement Phase [1.06] you may use a Karama Card to cancel one off-planet shipment of any one player.
1.14.06 Bene Gesserit: Instead of a once a game ability you may use any worthless card as if it is a Karama Card.
1.14.07 Free Traders: During Battle PHASE [1.07], you may use a Karama Card to flip all Smugglers in one Territory to fighters.