# 2 Factions

This Category goes over the Factions a player can play as and how these rules interact and supersede the rules of the game.
2.01 A faction has special abilities that may contradict the rules. A faction's particular abilities always have precedence over the rules.
2.02 A Treachery Card may contradict the rules or a faction's particular abilities. A Treachery Card always has precedence over the rules and faction abilities.
2.03 A Variant [4] may contradict the rules, a faction ability, or a Treachery Card. Variants always have precedence over the rules, faction abilities, and Treachery Cards.
2.04 When a Karama card is used to cancel an ability, as detailed in Karama card description 3.01.11.01 and 3.01.11.02, the faction whose ability is cancelled may recalculate and retake that same action (ex: revival, shipment, movement) without the ability.
2.05 When a faction’s ability is used all other actions that can take place must wait until the ability is complete. After the ability is completely done players may use abilities, play cards, and make Bribes. -3.01.11 -3.01.11

## 2.01 Atreides

2.01.00 When playing Basic rules use only abilities 2.01.01 through 2.01.09. When playing Advanced Rules use abilities 2.01.01 through 2.01.15.
2.01.01 Starting Spice [0.12]: Put 10 spice behind your shield from the bank.
2.01.02 Starting Forces [0.13]: Place 10 Forces in Arrakeen and 10 in reserves (off-planet).
2.01.03 PROPER MANAGMENT: After Player Positions [0.10] Put the Spice Deck and the Treachery Deck near your player position. You manage these decks.
2.01.04 FREE REVIVAL: 2 Forces.
2.01.05 ✷BIDDING: During the Bidding Phase when a Treachery Card comes up for purchase, you may look at it before any faction bids on it.
2.01.06 FILAMENT BOOK: You, and only you, may keep written records about Treachery cards.
2.01.07 ✷WORMSIGN: During Shipment and Movement Phase [1.06], before anyone ships, you may look at the top card of the Spice Deck.
2.01.08 PRESCIENCE: Before Battle Wheel [1.07.04.01], before any elements of the Battle Plan are determined you may force your opponent to Reveal your choice of one of these elements they intend to use in their Battle Plan against you: the leader, the weapon, the defense, or the number dialed. If you choose to ask about a weapon or defense and your opponent tells you that they are not playing that element during this battle, you may not then ask to see a different element.✷ +3.04.01 +3.04.03 +3.04.01 +3.04.03
2.01.09 ALLIANCE: In your ally's battle you may use ability Prescience [2.01.08] on your ally's opponent.✷
2.01.10 THE SLEEPER HAS AWAKENED: The Kwisatz Haderach card starts out inactive and the Kwisatz Haderach token may not be used. Use the Kwisatz Haderach card and counter token to secretly keep track of Force losses. Once you have lost 7 or more Forces in a battle or battles, the Kwisatz Haderach token becomes active for the rest of the game.
2.01.11 ✷KWISATZ HADERACH: In your battle you may add the Kwisatz Haderach token to your leader or Cheap hero's strength (+2) in one Territory per Turn. If the leader or Cheap Hero is killed the Kwisatz Haderach does not add its +2 strength.
2.01.12 ATREIDES LOYALTY: A leader accompanied by Kwisatz Haderach can not turn traitor.
2.01.13 PROPHECY BLINDED: The Kwisatz Haderach token can only be killed if blown up by a lasgun/shield explosion.
2.01.14 REAWAKEN: When killed, the Kwisatz Haderach must be revived like any other leader. When all other leaders have died once and/or become unavailable you may use your one leader revival action to revive this token instead of a leader. -1.14.08 -1.14.08
2.01.15 ASCENSION: Alive or dead, the Kwisatz Haderach does not prevent the Atreides from reviving leaders.

## 2.02 Bene Gesserit

2.02.00 When playing Basic rules use only abilities 2.02.01 through 2.02.10. When playing Advanced Rules use abilities 2.02.01 through 2.02.21.
2.02.01 Starting Spice [0.12]: Put 5 spice behind your shield from the bank.
2.02.02 Starting Forces [0.13]: Place 1 Force in Polar Sink and 19 forces in reserves (off-planet).-2.02.08 -2.02.08
2.02.03 PREDICTION: After Player Positions [0.10], you secretly predict when one other faction will win via Stronghold Victory, placing a turn number card and a faction card from your prediction deck face down behind your Player Shield. Putting the unused prediction cards face down back in the box. If the faction you predicted has met the requirements for victory during Mentat Pause Phase [1.09.03] (alone or as an ally, even your ally) in the Turn you predicted, Reveal your prediction, and win alone. You also can win normally via Stronghold Victory. You cannot predict the Spacing Guild or Fremen to win with their special victory conditions.
2.02.04 FREE REVIVAL: 1 Force.
2.02.05 SPIRITUAL ADVISORS: Whenever any other faction Ships Forces onto Dune from off-planet, you may Send 1 Force (fighter) for free from your reserves to the Polar Sink.✷ -2.02.11 -2.02.11
2.02.06 VOICE: After Battle Plans [1.07.04.00] you may command your opponent to play or not play one of the following cards in their Battle Plan: poison weapon, projectile weapon, poison defense, projectile defense, a worthless card, a Cheap Hero, a specific special weapon by name, or a specific special defense by name. Your opponent must comply with your command as well as they are able to.✷
2.02.07 ALLIANCE: In your ally's battle you may use ability Voice [2.02.06] on your ally's opponent.✷
2.02.08 ADVANCED STARTING FORCES: During Forces setup [0.13], Place 1 advisor in any Territory on the Map of your choice. If you are alone in the Territory, flip the advisor to a fighter. This is done after the Fremen placement (if that faction is in the game). This ability replaces the normal Bene Gesserit Starting Forces ability [2.02.02].
2.02.09 CHARITY: You always receive CHOAM Charity of at least 2 spice regardless of how much spice you already have.✷
2.02.10 NONCOMBATANTS: Your Force tokens have two sides, the spiritual, striped side (advisor) and the battle side with no stripes (fighter). Fighters are normal Forces.
2.02.11 ADVISORS: When using ability Spiritual Advisors [2.02.05], you may send 1 advisor for free from your reserves into the same Territory (and same Sector) that faction ships to, in place of sending a fighter to the Polar Sink. You may only do this when you do not have fighters already present in that Territory.
2.02.12 COEXISTENCE: Advisors coexist peacefully with other faction Forces in the same Territory, including allies. Advisors have no effect on the play of the other factions whatsoever. Here is a list of things they CANNOT do: Advisors are still susceptible to storms, sandworms, lasgun/shield explosions, and Family Atomics.
2.02.13 FIGHTERS: When you use your normal shipment action [1.06.03] Forces must be shipped as fighters. Fighters may not be shipped to Territories already occupied by Advisors.
2.02.14 ENLISTMENT: When you Move advisors to an unoccupied Territory, you must flip them to fighters.
2.02.15 INTRUSION: When a Force of another faction that you are not allied to enters a Territory where you have fighters, you may flip them to advisors.✷
2.02.16 TAKE UP ARMS: When you Move advisors into an occupied Territory, you may flip them to fighters following occupancy limit if you do not already have advisors present.✷
2.02.17 WARTIME: Before Shipment and Movement [1.06.00], in each Territory that you have advisors, you may flip all of those advisors to fighters. This change must be publicly announced.✷
2.02.18 PEACETIME: Advisors can not flip to fighters with an ally present.
2.02.19 STORMED IN: Advisors can not flip to fighters under storm.
2.02.20 ADAPTIVE FORCE: When you Move advisors or fighters into a Territory where you have the opposite type they flip to match the type already in the Territory.
2.02.21 UNIVERSAL STEWARDS: When advisors are ever alone in a Territory before Battle Phase [1.07], they automatically flip to fighters.
2.02.22 KARAMA: You may use any worthless card as if it were a Karama Card.✷

## 2.03 Emperor

2.03.00 When playing Basic rules use only abilities 2.03.01 through 2.03.07. When playing Advanced Rules use abilities 2.03.01 through 2.03.11.
2.03.01 Starting Spice [0.12]: Put 10 spice behind your shield from the bank.
2.03.02 Starting Forces 0.13: Place 20 Forces in reserves (off-planet).
2.03.03 FREE REVIVAL: 1 Force.
2.03.04 PAYMENT FOR TREACHERY: During Buying A Card [1.04.06.02], when any other faction pays spice for a Treachery Card, they pay it to you instead of the Spice Bank.✷
2.03.05 FAIR MARKET: You may not discount the price of Treachery Cards; the full price must be paid.
2.03.06 ALLIANCE: You may give spice to your ally at any time for any reason. Spice you give to your ally goes behind their shield and is now their spice.
2.03.07 ALLIANCE: You may pay spice for the revival of up to 3 extra of your ally's Forces beyond their current limit from the Tleilaxu Tanks.✷
2.03.08 ✷SARDAUKAR: Your five starred Forces, elite Sardaukar, have a special fighting capability. They are worth two normal Forces in battle and in taking losses against all opponents except Fremen.
2.03.09 SARDAUKAR WEAKNESS: Your starred Forces are worth just one Force against Fremen Forces.
2.03.10 SARDAUKAR REVIVAL: They are treated as one Force in revival.
2.03.11 SARDAUKAR TRAINING: Only one Sardaukar Force can be revived per Turn.

## 2.04 Fremen

2.04.00 When playing Basic rules use only abilities 2.04.01 through 2.04.12. When playing Advanced Rules use abilities 2.04.01 through 2.04.21.
2.04.01 Starting Spice [0.12]: Put 3 spice behind your shield from the bank.
2.04.02 Starting Forces [0.13]: Place 10 Forces distributed as you like on Sietch Tabr, False Wall South, and False Wall West; and 10 Forces in reserves.
2.04.03 NATIVES: Your Reserves are in a Territory on the far side of Dune (in front of your shield, off the board). Unlike other factions you do not have Off-Planet Reserves and can not ship with the normal Shipping method.
2.04.04 FREE REVIVAL: 3 Forces.
2.04.05 SHIPMENT: During the Shipment [1.06.03], you may Send any or all your reserves for free onto the Great Flat or onto any one Territory on the Map within two territories of the Great Flat (subject to storm and Occupancy Limit). This ability costs 1 shipment action to use.
2.04.06 MOVEMENT: During movement you may Move your Forces two territories instead of one.✷
2.04.07 SHAI-HULUD: When Shai-Hulud appears in a Territory where you have Forces, they are not devoured.✷
2.04.08 BEAST OF BURDEN: Upon conclusion of the Nexus you may ride the sandworm and Move some or all the Forces in the Territory, as long as they are not in Storm, to any Territory without allied Forces subject to storm and occupancy limits. Any Forces in that Territory are not devoured. If Shai-Hulud appears again and you still have Forces in the original Territory, you may do this again.
2.04.09 FREMEN SPECIAL VICTORY CONDITION
2.04.09.01 When the Spacing Guild is in the game and no faction has won by the end of the last turn your plans to alter Dune have succeeded, you and your allies win the game if you meet the following criteria
2.04.09.02 Only your Forces (or no Forces) occupy Sietch Tabr and Habbanya Sietch
2.04.09.03 Neither Harkonnen, Atreides, nor Emperor Forces occupy Tuek's Sietch.
2.04.10 ALLIANCE: You may decide to protect (or not protect) your allies from being devoured by sandworms.✷
2.04.11 ALLIANCE: At your discretion, your ally's free revival is 3.✷
2.04.12 ALLIANCE: Your allies win with you when you win with the Fremen Special Victory Condition (ability 2.04.09).
2.04.13 STORM RULE: Move the Storm Marker normally using the Battle Wheels on the first Turn of the game. You randomly select a card from the Storm Deck and Put it face down on the margin of the game board. In the next Storm Phase the number on that Storm Card is Revealed; the storm is moved counterclockwise that number of Sectors and your Storm Card is returned to the Storm Card Deck. You then shuffle the Storm Deck, randomly select a Storm Card for the next turn's storm movement, and Put it face down on the margin of the game board. -3.01.23 -3.01.23
2.04.14 ✷THERE'S A STORM COMING: At the end of the Storm Phase [1.01] you may secretly look at the Storm Card.
2.04.15 SANDWORMS: During Spice Blow [1.02], all additional sandworms that appear after the first sandworm in a Spice Blow can be Placed by you in any sand Territory you wish. Any Forces there, except yours, are devoured.✷
2.04.16 STORM LOSSES: When your Forces are caught in a storm, only half of them there are destroyed (rounded up). A storm landing on your Forces then moving in a subsequent Turn does not destroy half of your Forces a second time.✷
2.04.17 STORM MIGRATION: You may Send your reserves into a storm at half loss.✷
2.04.18 ✷FEDAYKIN: Your three starred Forces, Fedaykin, have a special fighting capability. They are worth two normal Forces in battle and in taking losses.
2.04.19 FEDAYKIN REVIVAL: They are each treated as one Force in revival.
2.04.20 FEDAYKIN TRAINING: Only one Fedaykin Force can be revived per Turn.
2.04.21 ✷BATTLE HARDENED: Your Forces do not require spice to count at full strength in battles.

## 2.05 Harkonnen

2.05.00 When playing Basic rules use only abilities 2.05.01 through 2.05.09. When playing Advanced Rules use abilities 2.05.01 through 2.05.13.
2.05.01 Starting Spice [0.12]: Put 10 spice behind your shield from the bank.
2.05.02 Starting Forces [0.13]: Place 10 Forces in Carthag and 10 Forces in reserves (off-planet).
2.05.03 TERRIBLY TRAITOROUS: During Traitors setup [0.11] keep all four Traitor cards you are dealt.
2.05.04 MYSTERY CARD: After Starting Treachery Card [0.14] Draw a Treachery Card.
2.05.05 FREE REVIVAL: 2 Forces.
2.05.06 TRAITORS: All four of the Traitor cards you kept during Traitors setup [0.14] can be used normally.
2.05.07 TRAMENDOUSLY TREACHEROUS: You hand size is 8 Treachery Cards. When you have 8 Treachery Cards you must pass during bidding. -1.14.04 -1.14.04
2.05.08 TOP CARD: When you Buy a card, you Draw an extra card for free from the Treachery Deck (unless you are at 7 cards, because you can never have more than 8 total Treachery Cards in hand).✷
2.05.09 ALLIANCE: In your ally’s battle you may use your Traitor Cards on your ally’s opponent. This is Treated as if your ally played the Traitor Card.
2.05.10 CAPTURED LEADERS
2.05.10.01 After you win a battle and all effects have been resolved randomly select 1 Active Leader from the loser (including the leader used in the battle, if not killed, but excluding all leaders already used elsewhere that Turn), you may choose to activate either ability: ✷
2.05.10.02 KILL: Place the Leader Disc face down into the Tleilaxu Tanks to gain 2 spice from the Spice Bank.
2.05.10.03 CAPTURE: That leader is now in your Active Leader Pool. After it is used in a battle, if it wasn’t killed during that battle, the leader is returned to the Active Leader Pool of the player who last had it.
2.05.11 PRISON BREAK: When all your own leaders have been killed, you must return all captured leaders immediately to the players who last had them as an Active Leader.
2.05.12 TYING UP LOOSE ENDS: Killed captured leaders are Placed in the Tleilaxu Tanks from which their factions can revive them (subject to the revival rules).
2.05.13 NO LOYALTY: A captured leader used in battle may be called traitor with the matching Traitor Card!

## 2.06 Spacing Guild

2.06.00 When playing Basic rules use only abilities 2.06.01 through 2.06.11. When playing Advanced Rules use abilities 2.06.01 through 2.06.12.00.
2.06.01 Starting Spice [0.12]: Put 5 spice behind your shield from the bank.
2.06.02 Starting Forces [0.13]: Place 5 Forces in Tuek's Sietch and 15 Forces in reserves (off-planet).
2.06.03 FREE REVIVAL: 1 Force.
2.06.04 PAYMENT FOR SHIPMENT: When another faction ships Forces onto Dune, they pay the spice to you instead of to the Spice Bank.✷ -3.01.11.03 -3.01.11.03
2.06.05 THREE TYPES OF SHIPMENT: You are capable of making one of three types of shipments each Turn.
2.06.05.01 NORMAL SHIPMENT: You may ship normally from off-planet reserves to Dune.
2.06.05.02 CROSS-SHIP: You may ship any number of Forces from any one Territory to any other Territory on the board.✷
2.06.05.03 OFF-PLANET: You may ship any number of Forces from any one Territory back to your reserves.✷
2.06.06 HALF PRICE SHIPPING: You pay only half the normal price (rounded up) when shipping your Forces.✷
2.06.07 RETREAT CALCULATIONS: The final price of your Forces shipped back to reserves is 1 spice for every 2 Forces.
2.06.08 SPACING GUILD SPECIAL VICTORY CONDITION: If no faction has been able to win the game by the end of play, you have prevented control of Dune and automatically win the game.
2.06.09 ALLIANCE: Your ally may use the ability HALF PRICE SHIPPING [2.06.06].✷
2.06.10 ALLIANCE: Your ally may use the ability CROSS-SHIP [2.06.05.01].✷
2.06.11 ALLIANCE: Your ally wins with you when you win with the Spacing Guild Special Victory Condition [2.06.08].
2.06.12 ✷SHIP AS IT PLEASES YOU: During the Shipment and Movement Phase you may activate either ability SHIP AND MOVE AHEAD OF SCHEDULE [2.06.12.01] or HOLDING PATTERN [2.06.12.02].✷ -3.03.05.02 -3.03.05.02 -3.03.05.03
2.06.12.01 The rest of the factions must make their shipments and movements in the proper sequence. You do not have to make known when you intend to make your shipment and movement action until the moment you wish to take it.
2.06.12.02 SHIP AND MOVE AHEAD OF SCHEDULE: You may take your shipment and move action before any player earlier in storm order than you. This would allow you to go first, or after any player has taken their complete Shipment and Movement action. -3.03.05.02 -3.03.05.02
2.06.12.03 HOLDING PATTERN: When you are up next in storm order you may announce, "Delay". You may take your shipment and move action after any player later in storm order than you. This would allow you to go last, or after any player has taken their complete Shipment and Movement action. -3.03.05.03 -3.03.05.03