# 3 Treachery Cards

This Category goes over the Treachery Cards a player can play and how these rules interact and supersede the rules of the game and Faction abilities.
3.01 A faction has special abilities that may contradict the rules. A faction's particular abilities always have precedence over the rules.
3.02 A Treachery Card may contradict the rules or a faction's particular abilities. A Treachery Card always has precedence over the rules and faction abilities.
3.03 A Variant [4] may contradict the rules, a faction ability, or a Treachery Card. Variants always have precedence over the rules, faction abilities, and Treachery Cards.
3.04 When a Karama card is used to cancel an ability, as detailed in Karama card description 3.01.11.01 and 3.01.11.02, the faction whose ability is cancelled may recalculate and retake that same action (ex: revival, shipment, movement) without the ability.
3.05 When a faction’s ability is used all other actions that can take place must wait until the ability is complete. After the ability is completely done players may use abilities, play cards, and make Bribes. -3.01.11 -3.01.11

## 3.01 Treachery Card List

3.01.00 This section of the rules lists all Treachery Cards in the Classic Dune game.
3.01.01 BALISET: Worthless Card - Play as part of your Battle Plan in place of a weapon, defense, or both. This card has no value in play. You can discard it by playing it in your Battle Plan.
3.01.02 CHAUMAS: Weapon-Poison - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Poison Defense. You may keep this card if you win this battle.
3.01.03 CHAUMURKY: Weapon-Poison - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Poison Defense. You may keep this card if you win this battle.
3.01.04 CHEAP HERO: Special-Leader - Play as a leader with zero strength on your Battle Plan. You may also play a weapon and a defense. The Cheap Hero may be played in place of a leader, it must be played when you have no leaders available. Discard after use. Note: There are two different arts for this same name card.
3.01.05 CRYSKNIFE: Weapon-Projectile - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Projectile Defense. You may keep this card if you win this Battle.
3.01.06 ELLACA DRUG: Weapon-Poison - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Projectile Defense. You may keep this card if you win this Battle.
3.01.07 FAMILY ATOMICS: Special-Storm - After the first game Turn, if you have one or more Forces on the Shield Wall or a Territory adjacent to the Shield Wall with no storm between your Sector and the Wall play after the storm movement is calculated but, before the storm is moved. All Forces on the Shield Wall are destroyed. Place the Destroyed Shield Wall token on the Shield Wall as a reminder. The Imperial Basin, Arrakeen, and Carthag are no longer protected from the Storm for the rest of the game. Set Aside this card.
3.01.08 GOM JABBAR: Weapon-Poison - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Poison Defense. You may keep this card if you win this battle.
3.01.09 HAJR: Special-Movement - Play during FORCE MOVEMENT [1.06.05]. You gain an extra Force movement action subject to normal movement rules. The Forces you Move may be a group you've already moved this Phase or another group. Discard after use.
3.01.10 JUBBA CLOAK: Worthless Card - Play as part of your Battle Plan in place of a weapon, defense, or both. This card has no value in play. You can discard it by playing it in your Battle Plan.
3.01.11 KARAMA: Special
3.01.11.00 Play at anytime to do one of these options when appropriate, then discard.
3.01.11.01 Cancel one use of a faction ability that has an ✷ after it when another player attempts to use it. The faction whose ability is cancelled may recalculate and retake that same action (ex: revival, shipment, movement) without the ability.
3.01.11.02 Prevent one use of a faction ability that has an ✷ before and after it. This must be done before that faction uses that ability.
3.01.11.03 Purchase a shipment of Forces onto the board at Guild Rates (1/2 normal) paid to the Spice Bank for any faction.
3.01.11.04 Bid more spice than you have (without Revealing this card) and/or Buy a Treachery Card without paying spice for it (cannot be used if your hand is full).
3.01.11.05 In Advanced use a Once-a-game special Karama power (see 1.14).
3.01.12 KULON: Worthless Card - Play as part of your Battle Plan in place of a weapon, defense, or both. This card has no value in play. You can discard it by playing it in your Battle Plan.
3.01.13 LA, LA, LA: Worthless Card - Play as part of your Battle Plan in place of a weapon, defense, or both. This card has no value in play. You can discard it by playing it in your Battle Plan.
3.01.14 LASGUN: Weapon-Special - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. There is no defense against the Lasgun. You may keep this card if you win this battle. If anyone plays a Shield (or Shield Snooper [3.02.10]) in this battle, all Forces and spice in this battle's Territory are lost to the Tleilaxu Tanks and Spice Bank. Both players lose this battle, both leaders die, no Spice is paid for leaders, and all cards played are discarded.
3.01.15 MAULA PISTOL: Weapon-Projectile - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Projectile Defense. You may keep this card if you win this Battle.
3.01.16 SHIELD: Defense-Projectile - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Protects your leader from a projectile weapon in this battle. You may keep this card if you win this battle.
3.01.17 SLIP TIP: Weapon-Projectile - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Projectile Defense. You may keep this card if you win this Battle.
3.01.18 SNOOPER: Defense-Poison - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Protects your leader from a poison weapon in this battle. You may keep this card if you win this battle.
3.01.19 STUNNER: Weapon-Projectile - Play as part of your Battle Plan. Kills opponent's leader before battle is resolved. Opponent may protect their leader with a Projectile Defense. You may keep this card if you win this Battle.
3.01.20 TLEILAXU GHOLA: Special - Play at any time to gain an extra Revival. You may immediately revive 1 of your Leaders regardless of how many leaders you have in the Tanks (adding it to your Active Leader pool) or up to 5 of your Forces from the Tleilaxu Tanks to your reserves at no cost in spice. You still receive your normal revivals. Discard after use.
3.01.21 TRIP TO GAMONT: Worthless Card - Play as part of your Battle Plan in place of a weapon, defense, or both. This card has no value in play. You can discard it by playing it in your Battle Plan.
3.01.22 TRUTHTRANCE: Special - Play at anytime to publicly ask one other player a single yes/no question about the game, pertaining to something in the present or past. This question must be answered publicly. The game pauses until an answer is given. The player must answer "yes" or "no" truthfully. Discard after use.
3.01.23 WEATHER CONTROL: Special-Storm - After the first game Turn, play during 1.01.02 before the Storm Marker is moved. You control the storm this Phase and move it 1 through 10 Sectors in a Counterclockwise direction OR decide the Storm Marker does not move this Turn. Discard after use.